# ml-bangjek
Machine learning - project bangkit by bangjek team

#To run the training.ipynb:
1. Preparation:
   To make the data readable by the training.ipynb, make sure to setup your files structure like below:
   - Your Current Dir:
     - training.ipnyb
     - Dataset Medicinal:
       - leaf_dataset.zip (zip yang didownload dari mendeley) 

   Keterangan:
    1). Put training.ipynb and Folder 'Dataset Medicinal' in one Folder.
    2). Put 'leaf_dataset.zip' in folder 'Dataset Medicinal'.
   
2. Tools: Use Jupyter Notebook to run the program.
3. Test the saved model by running "Uji Model.ipynb".
4. Convert the model to tflite by running "Convert Model to TFLite.ipynb".


#Documentation of ML model development :
1. Start by downloading medicinal leaf dataset from https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/nnytj2v3n5/1
2. In training.ipynb, we write script for:
   - Read the data
   - Split the data randomly to make train set and test/validation set. Here we use 10% for test set.
   - Define CNN model with TensorFlow, and compile it with choosen optimizer and loss
   - Augmentation for the image using ImageDataGenerator for both train set and validation set
   - Training the model by passing the Augmented train set and validation set, generated by ImageDataGenerator, and Epoch used.
     If the Acc is not enough, with Callback function we can retrain the model using last checkpoints based on the last best accuracy.
   - Visualize the Accuracy and Loss during training.
   - Save the model
3. Convert the model into model.tflite using Convert mOdel to TFLite.ipynb. Here we use speed mode to reduce latency.
4. Deploy the model.tflite to be tested on Mobile Application.

